API Perfection - 04.22.2014 
================================================================================
My thoughts on a proper web Application Programming Interface (API)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A mobile developer will encounter many API standards over her career. Currently,
RESTful designs are the norm. The principles of REST are pretty straightforward.
Resources are accessed via HTTP verbs and data is returned based on the provided
URL and request parameters. In theory, there should not be a whole lot going on.

### Exposing Data
The primary purpose of an API (with regards to mobile applications) is to 
provide an interface to perform create, read, update, and destroy (CRUD) methods
on a set of data. These interface can be achieved with the standard set of HTTP
verbs.

#### My Rules On URL Path
* Use HTTP verbs to determine the operation. Avoid using methods in the URL.
* The URL should describe the data and its relationships.
* URL resources are plural. 
* Options and filters should be input as parameters. Protect the URL path.

### Business Logic

I feel that developers tend to over-engineer the API to handle specific business
logic and to *fill a specific need*. I feel an API (for a mobile application)
should be designed to expose data in a logical, easy to digest fashion. Methods
that encourage a dependence on the API should be avoided. 

Search is a good example of this. For a web developer, a search API is 
useful and a big time saver. The consumer is already relying on a network 
connection to access the site so an additional network dependancy is not a 
major liability. A network connection is not always available to a mobile 
application. Most solid mobile applications perform their searches locally 
on a set of cached data.  

A good API should deliver a set of data objects to its consumer with a minimal
amount of fuss. This does not mean that all business logic should be avoided. 
A mobile API consumer should be presented with only the data that she needs.

#### Use Case
> A developer is building a resource that lists product information. The 
> product price data is stored in the database as cost and markup. The API
> should be responsible for obfusicating the cost/markup data and providing the 
> calculated price value to the consumer.
